>> Scott Moss: We're going to hook
our Express server up, I'm sorry,
we're going to hook our Graph QL
implementation up to Express.
And we should be able to run it and
go to GraphiQL, so
I'm going to walk through some
stuff of what that looks like.
And then you guys are going to be
sent off and try to tackle it, so
I'm going to check out to lesson-10.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
lesson-10, what's this?
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
so I'm on lesson-10 here.
And then,
you'll see a new file here on lesson-10,
it's not an exact copy of the lesson-9
solution, so there's an added file here.
And you'll see this file right here,
so let's just walk through it.
There's a lot that's happening in this
file, but I needed this to be here so
we can go through what I need you to do.
So the file I'm talking about
is called graphqlrouter.js.
It's in the root of the API folder,
source API.
>> Scott Moss: GraphQLRouter JS,
so if you get there, follow along with me.
So a couple things that's going on right
here, let me close the double pane,
the first thing to note is look at
the imports we've got going on.
We have this make executable
schema from GraphQL tools.
GraphQL tools is a library
created from some individual and
it's a really good library.
This is what's going to allow
us to combine our queries and
have them know about each other.
And do some really cool things like
extending mutations in the extending
queries, and we'll talk about that later.
But this gives us that flexibility to
build our schemas in the string format.
Which I think is way more powerful
than the JavaScript format, so
that's going to do that.
But we need to convert our string
schemas into an executable schema
that the GraphQL server can use
to check the query against.
By default, it doesn't know
what to do with that string,
it has to convert it to that AST.
It has to convert it to that JavaScript
type that we were trying to avoid,
that's what that's going to do.
It's going to convert it for
us so we don't have to do it.
And then we have this userType and
these userResolvers,
we haven't talked about resolvers,
you don't need to know what they are.
It's just an object with some methods on
it, but we do know what a userType is.
The userType is the GraphQL
file that we wrote.
That's what that is,
it's just that string,
this is just that string
of that GraphQL file.
If you were to log it,
you would see the exact same
thing that we wrote in that file,
nothing more.
>> Scott Moss: We've got merge,
we know what merge is at this point.
And then we have graphqlExpress,
graphqlExpress is a middleware
that we use to mount a GraphQL
server on an Express route.
And that's what we're going to
use to attach our GraphQL type
definitions and resolvers to
our root Express applications.
Remember the root app that we made
yesterday inside the ServerJS file that
uses global middleware,
we're going to attach our server.
Our GraphQL implementation there.
So the first thing is,
we have this baseSchema, this baseSchema
is basically, a GraphQL schema by
default has to have one thing.
The minimum it has to have is a query,
that's the minimum.
If it doesn't have a query, then it just
won't work, unless you're using Relay, but
again, we're not going to use Relay.
I actually don't recommend using Relay,
I think Apollo's better, but
that's just my opinion.
So by minimum, we need a query,
we don't need a mutation, but
you have to have a query,
this syntax is, it's just a string.
I just didn't feel like putting it in
another file because it's so small.
This is like the root,
this is like the index of our query,
of our schema basically.
So like I say, you can think of GraphQL as
a tree, right, so a tree, this is a root,
this is where it starts, right here.
If we make a query, so we make a schema,
we give it a property called query,
and we set its type to Query.
I didn't just make this up,
these aren't just made up words,
this is something that it needs.
[LAUGH] I didn't just like,
I'm just going to use these words, no,
it needs a schema, or a property
called query, edit type is Query.
We didn't make this type called Query,
it's a built in type,
we just have to explicitly define it.
Even though pretty much
every server needs this,
you still have to explicitly define
this right here, this root, okay?
So we have this root,
that's the base schema,
everything is going to be a child of this.
>> Scott Moss: And then we have
the mid executable schema, and it takes an
object with, for us, just two properties.
An array of our type definitions, and
our type definitions are those
GraphQL files that we wrote.
They're just strings, so we have
our baseSchema, that's up here, and
then I went ahead and put our userType.
Which, again,
is just this user grab field box,
it's just this turned into a string,
that's all that is.
And then we have our resolvers,
which is an object of all
the resolvers put together.
Again, we haven't talked about resolvers
yet, but for now, just think of them,
they're just methods,
they're objects with methods on them.
Those methods correlate to mutations and
queries.
And then we go ahead and
merge them in, and
then down below here is
where it's pretty cool.
We use this graphqlExpress, where it's,
in the way that we're using it,
takes a call back.
And a call back exposes that
powerful thing I was talking about,
the request object that we needed,
that has the headers, the path.
Everything associated with
the incoming request,
we want to pass that down to every
single graphQL resolver that we have.
So it has access to it,
we want to give every resolver the best
tools it needs to resolve the data.
So, inside of our controllers yesterday,
we were able to pass down the request
to every single controller, right?
We want to do the same thing for
every single resolver, by default,
it won't do that, so we have to do that.
So we create this graphqlExpress
using Apollo server Express, and
it takes, basically it has to
return an object that has a schema.
Which we already created up here,
an executable schema.
And then this context,
when we get to resolvers,
we are going to see what context is.
But context is basically just an object
that's going to be passed down to every
single resolver, that's all that is.
It's like, this object is going to be,
every time you make a resolver,
it's going to get this object.
And we want to make sure that we
pass down the request that came in,
the request object, so we can share it.
And then there's a shortcut,
we're just going to go ahead and
attach the user here,
which is going to be our req.user.
If we're using that middleware
that we used yesterday,
the authentication middleware that
attaches the user to the request.
That I already had built out for
you, that's going to attach it to
the request for us, if we decide
to use that middleware or not.
If we don't decide to use that
middleware or not, it won't be there,
it's going to be up to us.
So that's a lot of information, but it's
going to make more sense once you start
doing resolvers.
>> Scott Moss: So
your task is to find some way to get
this freely floating GraphQL router
attached to our Express router.
Then set up graphical documentation so
we can look at it, and I'm going to give
you a hint, you're going to do it in here.
>> Scott Moss: You're
going to attach that GraphQL router,
and I have it right here.
You're going to mount that
GraphQL router on the Express app
at /graphql.
>> Scott Moss: And
then you're going to
create another route for,
I'm sorry, you're going to
mount to that graph, /graphql.
Then you're going to create
another graph for GraphiQL.
At the path docs,
I didn't show you how to make GraphiQL so
I'm going to show you how to do that.
And then you're going to start
the server and go to the docs.
So if you just follow the clues and I'm
just going to give you another hint here,
inside of GraphQL router,
this GraphQL is being exported.
Right next to it, there is an index
where the restRouter is being exported.
I would say this is a great place to
export the GraphQL router as well.
And then if you go to the server file,
you can see the restRouter is
being imported from the api.
I would say this is also a great
place to import the GraphQL router.
And then you know how to mount routers,
that GraphQL router, at this point,
is the same thing as a restRouter.
And you saw how we mounted that,
you just need to mount your GraphQL
router on the different path of /GraphQL.
And then as far as GraphiQL, for GraphiQL,
you want to use,
there's a plug in here called,
where is that?
>> Scott Moss: Apollo,
apollo-server-express, there
should be a graphiql,
let me see this,
I forgot the exact name of it.
>> Scott Moss: Sometimes,
I guess I miss TypeScript,
having that there.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so
I think it is graph-i,
yeah, it's graphiqlExpress,
that's what it's called, okay, so
using graphiqlExpress.
>> Scott Moss: What is the exact
same thing as an Express router, the same
thing as an Express router like this.
The same thing as the GraphQL router
that you are going to be importing,
you need to mount that on /docs.
>> Scott Moss: So
I'll leave the task up.
>> Scott Moss: There's one
option that you have to pass to GraphiQL
that I'm not going to tell you about.
It's either going to break or
you're going to look it up, but
you've got to tell it where,
what's the route for your GraphQL API.
By default, it doesn't know,
it will mount itself, and like, cool, but
I don't know what URL to hit
to talk to GraphQL, right?
Because what the GraphiQL endpoint,
what it does is it's going to load that
interactive docs,
which is basically a react app.
And that react app needs to know
what URL to talk to to get the data,
you have to tell it what
URL in the options object.
But, a quick look at the documentation,
you'll see really fast how to do it or
you'll just get an error.